hey guys welcome to lingo marina today
we're going to learn
some vocabulary and some cultural
aspects related to
talking about money i personally like
this topic a lot
because i like to be transparent with my
financial situation i like to inspire
people how to make more money and when
you want to
you know kind of tell people something
about investing or tell people something
about
financial planning you kind of have to
share what's going on in your life
because the worst thing is where you are
an expert in something but you are not
succeeding
in that particular sphere so i
personally like talking about money and
i'm okay
sharing where i lost money or where i
made money but i also understand
that a lot of people don't like it and
this topic is a complete taboo
especially if you're
working for the same company the
management would highly discourage you
from discussing your salary with your
colleagues because sometimes salaries
of people on the same position vary a
lot because someone might have worked
longer or someone had a different
relationship with the boss so
people just don't like discussing it and
here
you have to be really subtle because
sometimes even your close friend
wouldn't want to talk about financials
but if you feel that you're willing to
share
something about your financial life if
you feel that you want to read more
about investing
about budgeting about being a financial
minimalist this video is for you because
we're going to go through vocabulary
related to money
and i'm going to explain some concepts
so if you're interested
hit the like button first and then
continue watching this video
so number one let's start with the worst
situation
broke this adjective describes a person
who doesn't have money or who run out of
money
and in a lot of times people don't mean
being actually broke they just mean not
having enough cash to go out so for
example you say
you know do you want to go to the movie
theater tonight and your friend answers
i can't i'm broke
that doesn't mean that he doesn't have
home whatever that he's going through
bankruptcy which is like the worst it
just means they don't have a lot of
money right now to spend on
entertainment
completely broke he took everything the
next word is cash
cash is basically what you have in your
pocket your coins your banknotes but i
also noticed
that a lot of people who are in
financial
sphere they call cash whatever you have
on your
checking account so your account that
doesn't make any
interest that is also cash but if you
want the simplest meaning of the word
cash
that's your coins and your bank notes i
don't have any cash
then the next word that's really
important to know is currency that means
money
used in particular country so for
example the national currency
of the us is an american dollar the
national currency of the uk
is british pound national currency of
canada is canadian dollar
that means currency american currency
when you want to buy another country's
currency
you buy it at an exchange rate so for
example
you come to russia with a hundred
dollars
and you're asking what's the current
exchange rate from dollars into rubles
and people will tell you it's around
80 rubles per dollar that's the exchange
rate what's the exchange rate now then
you have your expenses
when you spend money on something that's
your expense
you pay the expenses the next word
really important
interest remember we're talking about
cash
so when cash is put at work when cash is
put into savings account
it's no longer cash those are your
savings because they what
they earn you interest interest is a
percentage
that bank gives back to you because you
put your savings into their savings
accounts the problem with savings
accounts these days
is that i know in some european
countries the interest rates on savings
accounts are negative
and by the way guys if you could
practice your english right now
and just open google in a separate tab
and
put in current savings interest rate in
your country
and comment down below what it is that
would be really interesting
because when i asked this question on
instagram a lot of people from denmark
and other european countries were like
i just checked and it's actually
negative in the u.s
in some banks it's like 0.01 percent but
i know in countries with higher
inflation it's still around 5 to 7
interest rates so comment down below
what's the current interest rate in your
country and practice your english
at a low interest rate loan
is money that you borrow from a bank
from an institution
for example she's trying to get a
hundred thousand dollar
loan from a bank to pay for her
education
which is by the way really sad i don't
think education should be as expensive
as it is
these days i think it should be more
affordable and
open to people from different
backgrounds well
you're getting alone now the next word
is something that's inevitable you know
there is a phrase there are two
things inevitable in our lives death and
taxes
so texas is something that you pay to
your government if you make money
the thing is again it's really different
in different countries i know in some
i think in saudi arabia the tax rate is
zero
uh let me know if i'm correct but i get
a lot of dms from subscribers when i
write about my 50
tax rate in the us they're like oh my
god we don't have taxes at all in my
country
and i'm so jealous and again this is
another way for you to practice english
google your tax rate or if you know it
comment down below what's the current
tax rate
in your country and i know in some
countries it's different so for example
in the u.s some people pay zero percent
taxes
and some people like me pay 50 taxes
and some countries have like a fixed tax
rate we're talking about
personal income tax rate that means that
you as individuals pay
tax on whatever you make to your
government there are also
corporate tax rates there are also other
tax rates related to different entities
so not pay taxes another great word that
you can use
is withdraw so when you take money from
your account instead of saying i take
money from the account you can say i am
withdrawing money
from my account an example there are no
restrictions on the amount of money
you can withdraw people will withdraw
their money
the next great word that you've probably
heard a lot these days
it is called recession procession is a
period of decreased economic activity
when people lose their jobs things get
more expensive
some industries stall or die a lot of
businesses close
an example is i could not find a job for
a whole year after 2008 recession
i even had to sell my car to pay the
rent
the session sucks but on the bright side
recession is a really good time to
invest
and investing means putting your money
into stocks
bonds and other things for example in
the us
i invest through a couple of apps called
robinhood and weeble
and if you're in the us i'm willing to
start to invest if you use my
affiliate links below they're going to
give you free stocks the thing is
when we're in the recession stocks of
the companies
tend to be cheaper and it is a really
good time to buy because in a year
they would accelerate their growth and
they would increase in price
so if you're interested in putting your
money to work research the topic of
investing this is by the way one of my
favorite topics these days
and then invest that money another
important american word
that you have to know in order to
understand the way american
business world and financial world works
is called financing
so when you're financing something that
means you are taking a loan
to buy it so for example are you leasing
this car
or are you financing it so leasing means
kind of renting the car
but financing it means you're taking a
loan and you're owning the car but then
you're paying
your bank every month because you took a
loan from them that means financing the
car
and if you're financing an apartment or
a house that is called a mortgage
so mortgage is when you come to a bank
and you say i want to buy a house but i
only have like 200 000
and the house costs 1 million can you
please give me a mortgage
for 800 000 and then once the bank gives
it to you
you say i got a mortgage to buy a house
i got a 200 000
mortgage and the last but not the least
i wanted to explain the difference
between debit and credit
so if you have a debit card that means
you put some money on your debit card
like ten thousand dollars
and that means you can only spend ten
thousand dollars on that card if you
have a credit card
normally it says zero at the beginning
again i'm explaining american version of
that it might be different in different
countries
but with a credit card in the us when
you get it it says zero
but it says your credit limit is 35 000
and whenever you swipe your credit card
the zero changes to for example 250 that
means you made a 250
purchase and then you make a purchase of
another thousand so your
credit card balance is 1250.
but that's actually something that's a
little hard to understand so this
balance shows is positive in your bank
account
but it actually means that you owe the
bank because it's a credit card so
anything on the credit card
in your brain you know it's negative
because you owe it to the bank
anything on the debit card is with a
plus sign because this is something you
owe and people just deduct it from your
card
and by the way when you say can you
debit this from my account
that means can you just take it from my
account so for example when i call my
cpa my accountant
he says marina you owe us 250 like can
you just debit it from my account
and they just take it from my account
this is the way i pay it on the other
hand if my cpa calls me and says
marina you have a 200 credit with us
that means that they owe me 200
that means that i overpaid maybe last
month and now i have 200 more dollars to
spend
using their service so this is something
that
seemed a little illogical to me when i
first came to the us and started dealing
with personal finance
but now that i know it life is a lot
easier so i'm hoping you understand this
and the last but not the least thing i
wanted to show you today i just
mentioned the word o
so when you owe something to someone
means
you need to give that money back and
this is something that i learned when i
was on an exchange program
in the uk let me show it to you my
friend
left me a note saying i
owe you five i was like what does that
mean and she explained me that i stands
for i
o stands for o w e o
means i need to give you back and you
means you so i owe you five dollars
means i need to give you back
five dollars or five pounds in this
situation this is a financial acronym
that people use a lot
thank you guys so much for watching this
video up to the very end i know this was
a little
too advanced for some of you let me know
what you think i'm looking forward to
reading your comments about the
tax rate and interest rate in your
country but i really hope that this
class was useful
these financial classes were one of my
favorite classes when i learned
english probably because i like finance
but let me know what you think please
subscribe to this channel if you haven't
yet subscribed
if you decide to start investing the
affiliate links to the apps that i use
would be below
thank you so much and i will see you
soon in my next videos
bye-bye